So first we talked about Vec, so
if I wanna make a Vec of numbers like
u8 numbers, I can do it like this.
I can use the Vec macro to do that.
We also mentioned that you might wanna use
Vec :: with capacity if you anticipate
doing a lot of pushing onto there,
to avoid having to potentially
recopy things a bunch of times.
We talked about usize.
So this is this new type that's
either u64 on a 64-bit system or
a u32 on a 32-bit systems.
In practice, you're probably only gonna
encounter u32s on web assembly and
encountering something
that's neither 32-bit nor
64-bit is very rare in this day and age.
We talked about stack memory where
basically when I'm calling functions,
everything that I'm doing
is happening on the stack.
So functions, we'll use this sort of like,
take the stack length of -1 to get my
current argument, or a stack length of -2,
if there's more than one argument.
And this is how functions actually,
really use memory in order to pass
values around between one another.
And finally, we talked about heap memory,
which is for
things that don't have a size
that's known at compile time.
And that's the purpose of the heap.
And basically, what we'll do instead is we
will write down on the stack in some sort
of struct like our Vec metadata struct,
for example.
The index into the heap slot that
is like the first element in
that dynamically sized thing.
Okay, questions about any of this.
>> So is usize essentially a pointer?
>> If I were to use C, so
pointer is a term from C and C++,
you would use this as a pointer.
I don't wanna get into
explanation of pointers,
which is why I chose not to do that,
this is the correct size.
If this was C or C++, this would be
a pointer type rather than usize, but
at runtime, it's all the same thing.
>> But
as to the colon colon size underscore t?
>> Yeah, that's the length size,
size underscore t-
>> usize as with size underscore t is in
C, C++?
>> Right, that sounds right [LAUGH].
>> And then somebody else put,
I think first_elem_index is
the pointer to an index in the heap?
>> Correct, then again, I'm trying to keep
this accessible to people who don't know C
and C++, so I don't wanna get
into that whole terminology.
>> Can one pass capacity
to Vec to instantiate and
set capacity at the same time
without needing to push?
>> That's a good question.
I don't know if there's
a macro that does that.
Presumably, if there isn't one, you could
define your own if you wanted to, like
once you learn how to do macros, which
again outside the scope of this course,
but there's no reason someone
couldn't make a macro that did both.
>> Isn't a capacity up to breast?
>> No, you can definitely
choose the capacity yourself.
So basically,
when you say Vec : : with_capacity (5),
like when you call this function,
what's gonna happen is that this
is gonna compile the code that says,
hey, bookkeeping system,
find me 5 u8s in a row that are available,
that are not in use by some other Vec.
And that is gonna give you back the index
of the first element where that's true.
So yeah,
you're definitely in charge of this.
Honestly, the Vec macro behind the scenes
is actually calling Vec_with_capacity and
then push a bunch of times.
That's really what that macro does.
It's sort of a convenience for
calling with capacity followed by
push a bunch of times, essentially.
>> What would you do if you have no idea
what the size of a list of items is?
>> Yeah, it's a good question.
I mean, basically the trade off there is,
if you want to pick something
like really high capacity, it's gonna
use more memory and maybe wastefully so.
There is no real hard and
fast rule where it's like, if you do this,
you're always fine.
This is one of those things where
if there's unknown information,
you kind of just try to
take your best shot.
Worth noting that in practice, when you
run out of capacity because like this
whole thing where if you're in a bad
situation where you run out of space,
basically rust is gonna be, or Vec I
should say, is not going to just be like,
well, I hope this is the last one.
So I'm gonna allocate capacity plus 1 for
the next time.
It's actually gonna try and over allocate
in case there's more pushes coming, so
it'll actually double the capacity.
So it wouldn't go from 4 to 5 here.
In actuality, Vec would go from 4 to 8
automatically, just so you have room for
another four pushes if you want them.
So knowing that, if you just set something
that's reasonably close to what you want,
you're probably going to be off
by at most a magnitude of 2,
unless you're way off, in which case
it might need to do it double twice.
So hopefully that's
a helpful guidance [LAUGH].
>> Would it be better to use something
like a linked list data structure in
that case?
>> Would it be better to use something
like a linked list data structure in
a case like this?
That's a great question.
Without going into too much detail, the
first rule, I've watched a lot of talks,
I'm not a C++ programmer, but I have
actually watched a lot of talks at CppCon.
And also rust talks about performance.
Basically, to make a long story short,
the first rule of fast performance
is never use linked lists.
They're super slow [LAUGH].
Basically, the fact that you need to do,
every time you make a new element a linked
list, you have to go back to
the bookkeeping system and say, hey,
find me a new index for
the next element in the linked list.
Hey, find me the next
element in the linked list.
Asking the bookkeeping system
to find you available memory is
quite often the most expensive thing that
the entire data structure ends up doing.
And so a lot of performance optimization
as we're gonna see in future
sections is basically avoiding
asking that bookkeeping system for
how to find available memory on the heap.
And so linked lists generally are much
more often the cause of performance
problems and the solution to them,
not saying they're useless.
There are absolutely some situations
where a linked list is the right choice.
But that's sort of a rule that I've
internalized based on watching lots of
experts talk about this stuff is,
if you wanna go fast,
avoid linked lists like the plague.
[LAUGH]